# x2 Basics

x2 documents reside on has its own [project home](https://github.com/jaykang920/x2).
Here we summarise the x2 concepts in brief in order to help you understand x2net
more easily.

## x2 and Ports

x2 is a set of concepts and specifications that helps people build highly
flexible cross-platform, cross-language distributed applications. A *port* is an
actual implementations of x2 targeting specific language or platform. Any two x2
ports should be able to interfact each other without hassle, assuming that they
comply x2 design rules.

## Concepts

### Shared Knowledge

Participants of a distributed application usually depend on the knowledge shared
among them.

#### Constant

Named constant values may be defined and shared.

#### Cell

A *cell* is a predefined common data structure to be shared. As a composite data
record, a cell contains one or more properties whose data types may be either
primitive or composite (including another cell).

#### Event

An *event* is a special kind of cell that can travel across different flows.
In order for a remote recipient to identify the events it receives, events carry
their own type identifiers unique within an application domain.

**Exchanging events should be the only way that cases/flows communicate each other.**

#### xpiler

The shared knowledge of an application, defined in definition files, is *x-piled*
(trans-piled or cross-piled) into corresponding source files to form a part of
the entire application. By *xpiler* we mean this definition-to-source converting
tool.

### Structural Components

#### Flow

A *flow* is a physical execution unit that consumes or produces events. Flows need to be
attached to the hub in order to be notified with application-scope events.

#### Hub

The *hub* is the event distribution bus to which flows are attached. In most cases,
an x2 process maintains only one single hub with it.

#### Case

A *case* is a logical execution unit that can be staccked within a holding flow.

#### Link

A *link* is a special kind of flow or case, which provides inter-process
event communication across local or remote x2 processes. It plays the key role
in x2 style distribution.

Links are able to serialize/deserialize events to/from x2 wire format.
